---
layout: post
title: "Improve SQL Server Agent logging with output files"
description: "Several DBAs rely on SQL Server Agent for scheduling different jobs needed to maintain databases. SQL Server Agent comes with handy features like e-mail notices on failed jobs etc. I have however struggled when troubleshooting failed jobs since the history view is not always able to store all output from the jobs. SQL Server Agent output file to the rescue!"
category: SQL
tags: [sql]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Several DBAs rely on SQL Server Agent for scheduling different jobs needed to maintain databases. SQL Server Agent comes with handy features like e-mail notices on failed jobs etc. I have however struggled when troubleshooting failed jobs since the history view is not always able to store all output from the jobs. SQL Server Agent output file to the rescue!

h4. Save ALL output to text files

With SQL Server Agent output file it is possible to write all log information to a text file on disk. Thereby you don't have to worry about running out of space in the history log.

The process of setting up an output file is straight forward:
# Open the properties of the job where you want to add the output file.
# Choose the step where you want the output file and click Advanced Options.
# Add the path to the output file you want to use.

h4. Use SQL Server Agent Tokens to create unique output files

If you want to use output files for scheduled tasks you probably want to distinguish the output files. No problem! The answer is to use SQL Server Agent Tokens.

With SQL Server Agent Tokens you are able to access information about the SQL Server Agent Job when you are actually using it. I find the following information useful:
* JOBID. Id of the SQL Server Agent job.
* STEPID. Id of the SQL Server Agent job step.
* STRTTM. Time when SQL Server Agent started executing the job.
* STRTDT. Date when SQL Server Agent started executing the job.

Using these token I save the output files under the following path:
<script src="https://gist.github.com/4469124.js"></script>

Please read more about available SQL Server Agent Tokens and how to use them "here":http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms175575.aspx!